website/docs: add docs for MTLS Stage (#14571)
goauthentik/authentik: website/docs/add-secure-apps/flows-stages/stages/mtls/index.md

authentik_version: "2025.6"
authentik_preview: true
authentik_enterprise: true
toc_max_heading_level: 5
---

The Mutual TLS stage enables authentik to authenticate or enroll users utilizing client certificates. Management of client certificates is out of the scope of this document.

## Reverse-proxy configuration

Using this stage requires special configuration of any reverse proxy that is used in front of authentik, as the reverse-proxy interacts directly with the browser.

- nginx
    - [Standalone nginx](#nginx-standalone)
    - [nginx kubernetes ingress](#nginx-ingress)
- Traefik
    - [Standalone Traefik](#traefik-standalone)
    - [Traefik kubernetes ingress](#traefik-ingress)
- [envoy](#envoy)
- [No reverse proxy](#no-reverse-proxy)

#### nginx Standalone

Add this configuration snippet in your authentik virtual host:

```nginx
# server {
    ssl_client_certificate /etc/ssl/path-to-my-ca.pem;
    ssl_verify_client on;

    # location / {
        proxy_set_header ssl-client-cert $ssl_client_escaped_cert;
    # }
# }
```

See [nginx documentation](https://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_ssl_module.html#ssl_client_certificate) for reference.

#### nginx Ingress

> Add these annotations to your authentik ingress:

Reviewer: ... to your authentik ingress definition/configuration/file/..?? We need a noun after "ingress". ;-)

Author: to follow the other k8s example below, probably `object`

> Add these annotations to your authentik ingress:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add these annotations to your authentik ingress object:
```

```yaml
tls:
    options:
        default:
            clientAuth:
                # in PEM format. each file can contain multiple CAs.
                caFiles:
                    - tests/clientca1.crt
                    - tests/clientca2.crt
                clientAuthType: RequireAndVerifyClientCert
```

See the [Traefik MTLS documentation](https://doc.traefik.io/traefik/https/tls/#client-authentication-mtls) for reference.

#### Traefik Ingress

Create a middleweare object with these options:

```yaml
apiVersion: traefik.io/v1alpha1
kind: Middleware
metadata:
    name: test-passtlsclientcert
spec:
    passTLSClientCert:
        pem: true
```

See the [Traefik PassTLSClientCert documentation](https://doc.traefik.io/traefik/middlewares/http/passtlsclientcert/) for reference.

#### Envoy

See the [Envoy MTLS documentation](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/start/quick-start/securing#use-mutual-tls-mtls-to-enforce-client-certificate-authentication) and [Envoy header documentation](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/configuration/http/http_conn_man/headers#x-forwarded-client-cert) for configuration.

#### No reverse proxy

> When using authentik without a reverse proxy, the certificate authorities should be selected in the corresponding brand for the domain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using authentik without a reverse proxy, select the certificate authorities in the corresponding [brand](../../../sys-mgmt/brands#other-global-settings) for the domain, under **Other global settings**.
```

Author: good reminder that I need to update the brand settings too

# This secret needs to contain `ca.crt` which is the certificate authority to validate against.
nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/auth-tls-secret: namespace/secretName
```

See [ingress-nginx documentation](https://kubernetes.github.io/ingress-nginx/examples/auth/client-certs/) for reference.

#### Traefik Standalone

Add this snippet to your traefik configuration:

```yaml
tls:
    options:
        default:
            clientAuth:
                # in PEM format. each file can contain multiple CAs.
                caFiles:
                    - tests/clientca1.crt
                    - tests/clientca2.crt
                clientAuthType: RequireAndVerifyClientCert
```

See the [Traefik MTLS documentation](https://doc.traefik.io/traefik/https/tls/#client-authentication-mtls) for reference.

#### Traefik Ingress

Create a middleware object with these options:

```yaml
apiVersion: traefik.io/v1alpha1
kind: Middleware
metadata:
    name: test-passtlsclientcert
spec:
    passTLSClientCert:
        pem: true
```

See the [Traefik PassTLSClientCert documentation](https://doc.traefik.io/traefik/middlewares/http/passtlsclientcert/) for reference.

#### Envoy

> See the [Envoy MTLS documentation](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/start/quick-start/securing#use-mutual-tls-mtls-to-enforce-client-certificate-authentication) and [Envoy header documentation](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/configuration/http/http_conn_man/headers#x-forwarded-client-cert) for configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the [Envoy mTLS documentation](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/start/quick-start/securing#use-mutual-tls-mtls-to-enforce-client-certificate-authentication) and [Envoy header documentation](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/configuration/http/http_conn_man/headers#x-forwarded-client-cert) for configuration.
```

---
title: Mutual TLS stage
authentik_version: "2025.6"
authentik_preview: true
authentik_enterprise: true
---

> With the Mutual TLS stage, authentik can authenticate/enroll users based on client certificates. Management of client certificates is out of the scope of this document.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Mutual TLS stage enables authentik to authenticate or enroll users utilizing client certificates. Management of client certificates is out of the scope of this document.
```

## Configuration

> Using this stage requires special configuration of the reverse proxy used in front of authentik, as the reverse-proxy talks directly to the browser.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Using this stage requires special configuration of any reverse proxy that is used in front of authentik, as the reverse-proxy interact directly with the browser.
```

- nginx
    - [Standalone nginx](#nginx-standalone)
    - [nginx kubernetes ingress](#nginx-ingress)
- Traefik
    - [Standalone Traefik](#traefik-standalone)
    - [Traefik kubernetes ingress](#traefik-ingress)
- envoy
- No reverse proxy

> ### nginx Standalone

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### nginx standalone
```

Add this configuration snippet in your authentik virtual host:

```nginx
# server {
    ssl_client_certificate /etc/ssl/path-to-my-ca.pem;
    ssl_verify_client on;

    # location / {
        proxy_set_header ssl-client-cert $ssl_client_escaped_cert;
    # }
# }
```

See [nginx documentation](https://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_ssl_module.html#ssl_client_certificate) for reference.

> ### nginx Ingress

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### nginx ingress
```

Add these annotations to your authentik ingress:

```yaml
nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/auth-tls-pass-certificate-to-upstream: "true"
# This secret needs to contain `ca.crt` which is the certificate authority to validate against.
nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/auth-tls-secret: namespace/secretName
```

See [ingress-nginx documentation](https://kubernetes.github.io/ingress-nginx/examples/auth/client-certs/) for reference.

> ### Traefik Standalone

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Traefik standalone
```

> Add this snippet to your traefik configuration

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Add this snippet to your traefik configuration:
```

```yaml
tls:
  options:
    default:
      clientAuth:
        # in PEM format. each file can contain multiple CAs.
        caFiles:
          - tests/clientca1.crt
          - tests/clientca2.crt
        clientAuthType: RequireAndVerifyClientCert
```

> See [Traefik documentation](https://doc.traefik.io/traefik/https/tls/#client-authentication-mtls) for reference.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
See the [Traefik MTLS documentation](https://doc.traefik.io/traefik/https/tls/#client-authentication-mtls) for reference.
```

> ### Traefik Ingress

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Traefik ingress
```

> Create a middleweare objects with these options:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Create a middleweare object with these options:
```

```yaml
apiVersion: traefik.io/v1alpha1
kind: Middleware
metadata:
  name: test-passtlsclientcert
spec:
  passTLSClientCert:
    pem: true
```

> See [Traefik documentation](https://doc.traefik.io/traefik/middlewares/http/passtlsclientcert/) for reference.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
See the [Traefik PassTLSClientCert documentation](https://doc.traefik.io/traefik/middlewares/http/passtlsclientcert/) for reference.
```

### Envoy

> See [Envoy MTLS documentation](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/start/quick-start/securing#use-mutual-tls-mtls-to-enforce-client-certificate-authentication) and [Envoy header coumentation](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/configuration/http/http_conn_man/headers#x-forwarded-client-cert) for configuration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
See the [Envoy MTLS documentation](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/start/quick-start/securing#use-mutual-tls-mtls-to-enforce-client-certificate-authentication) and [Envoy header documentation](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/configuration/http/http_conn_man/headers#x-forwarded-client-cert) for configuration.
```
